---
title: The power of version control
---

# How I started using it
When I was growing up, I was always technically minded, technology and software always fascinated me - At one point, I would find a new operating system and then just install it into a VM to see what it would be like and yeah I did that from a young age. The first time I went on Github and had my curiousity look around the site, the first things I was searching for was things such as "how to program in git". Which I look back and think, "what the heck". Anyway!

If you have read some of my previous posts where I have been talking about learning Laravel etc, then you will know that I did two industry placements during my time at college which totals about 700 hours of industry experience where I worked with a company to develop something pretty spectacular (Which I won't speak about here). When I started that placement was the first time I had really started using Github. The first few meetings we had, where we was coming up with a plan for the initial start of the project, with the no experience I had, I thought it would be a good idea to throw the idea of using Github out because we was working in a team and collaboration was something that we need to prioritise. Even with my little experience, I was the one who was guiding everyone else through how to use Github. I think it's fair to say that I pick things up quite quickly especially taking into consideration the fact that for months and months, I would use the Git command line interface to commit and push all the work that I had done before miraculously noticing that my IDE (Jetbrains phpstorm) had direct Git implementation, so rather than typing out long commands, I would just hit a button and bam, everyone else could see the work I had done and complain it broke something if it ever did. *That happened quite a few times actually, oops.*
# What is so good about it?
Not sure why it required a full article about it but, why not, it really got me thinking about the amazing but simple piece of software Linus Torvolds had created and is now something that is an industry standard when doing work in the software development sector where you work with other people. Obviously, he only created Git and not Github, they are seperate things. GitHub is something that I will be rounding this arcticle around though, I should mention. For all the people who use GitLab, I have nothing to say.

As Github has evolved it has implemented a lot of new and really useful things that can be utilised during the development of software or just a silly little program that you have been working on with friends. *I have used it for both them things recently, may I mention.* What is so spectacular about it is that you are able to track everything that gets changed for each of the commits and pushes that go to the repository from any member of your team, you are able to create issues where you are able to discuss and pinpoint any problems in your code that need's fixing and have the ability to assign it to people.

If your asking me, I think it's an awesome thing that it has become a part of the industry standard for software development because it has so many use cases and can suite projects on whatever scale. It just works. Developers can be on the train in a totally different country and still collaborate on things. Something that is pretty cool that they are slowly rolling out is the ability to work on projects inside your own browser, *like wow*, think about all the possibilities - Could write a funciton or a method on your phone and still have the same experience that you would have on a desktop.

There is actually a lot to version control that I have not discussed here. 

Personally, Github has become one of my absolute favourite sites to use because I just do anything on it. I have been super busy with projects lately and actually have made my profile look a lot more proffesional to the point where I would feel comfortable showing it to anyone and if they are a developer themselves then expect a little *wow* when they see it. You can visit it [here](https://github.com/WillTheDeveloper) to see what I have been up to - Definitely take a wander around my repositories because a lot of them explain what that project is about and its just super interesting *i think*.

P.S. This is not like a sponsor thing, I just love software lol.
