---
title: Me and my photography journey
---

# Where it all began (January 2020)
In a sentence, where it all started was when my parents brought a camera but never really used it as much I did once I got my hands on it.

Honestly, when I think about it at the time of writing it, I am not sure how it all started but I am able to say for certain that the quality of the photos has come a long way. What makes it even more significant is that I have never studied or took any courses on photography and nobody in my family (to my knowledge) has either, ever! Looking back when we first got the camera, I think the intention was to just be able to take really high resolution photos of anything just like you would normally with your phone and not actually photos that are closer to what proffessionals would take. If you want my perspective of things, I had no interest in getting into photography at the time and honestly it was like getting given a present that you didn't ask for but cost a lot so you might try it. So, that's what I did.

My first impressions of it was quite satisfactory since its quite nice to be able to take photos that look so clear and crisp. Like previously mentioned, when I, personally, was using the camera, it did just feel like I was taking photos with a phone but with a lot better quality photos. It did take a little while for me to grasp the basics of all the different settings and switches their is on the camera, which was quite scary to begin with especially with all the different photo modes that are just labelled as "P", "A" on the camera itself, you ask yourself like "what the heck does that do" and "what's the difference" because initially all you want to do when you lay your hands on a camera is just take photos.
# Where it is now (February 2022)
Not sure where to begin because I have come such a long way in terms of using the camera and have really started getting into the nitty gritty details of photography with things such as all the different types of exposure evaluation there is on a camera. At the time of writing this I had taken over 22 thousand photos with the camera. I would like to mention that storing this many photos is no easy task especially since I understand the risks and dangers of mechanical hard drives. The risk of it failing is between 1 and 4 percent although up to yet I have never had a drive fail on me. If you are not already familiar with how camera formats work, essentially you have the uncompressed format which eats space on your drive for breakfast or the compressed format which is one you would find on your phone. They have their pros and cons for both but when it comes to posting on social media and showing people, it requires me to export them if I don't have it set to do it automatically since most software and devices are not made to read uncompressed files as it requires a lot of processing power and like I said, storage! It would also be really bad if I was to lose 2 years worth of photos to a drive failure that can be avoided.

When I look back at all the photos that I have taken i either cringe at them because there is just absolutely no composition or the exposure is awful. But with that said, at least with exposure, you can just take it into lightroom and adjust it accordingly. In contrast, composition is not something that can be fixed since the photo has already been taken, unless it was slightly off then you could just crop it but you probably understand the point that I am trying to make. Lately, I have been taking a lot of my past photos and taking them into lightroom and trying to wrap my head around the, what feels like, million sliders there is that manipulates the image in various different ways to make it look cooler or in my case, make it like absurd because I am still trying to understand what they all do. Trying to remember the difference between hue and luminance is not the easiest when your also trying to digest information about all the other sliders.

At the time of writing, I would say that I am starting to take it a lot more serious and taking the title of photographer under my stride but only as a hobby and if you follow me on instagram then you would have noticed that its my area that appears in light grey text (Can't remember the proper name for it). I have been recieving quite a few messages from people about how much they like my photography which is nice as it did take me a long while to realise that I am not bad at what I do with a camera.
# What about the future? (2022 and beyond)
In regard to where I am planning to take my photography in the future, well I am not sure but I do have a few ideas.

* An idea that has been floating around in my head for a while is starting a youtube career where I just create vlogs or videos about when I go take photos. I just need to bear in mind things such as workload from college/university and gaining my confidence when talking to myself or a camera in this case.
* I have started printing photos, but not by me, I mean company prints that looks awesome. I am planning to give ones to people for their birthday if they are interested. 
* I am saving up for a camera, not sure which yet, which will support a larger variety of lenses and have an increased dynamic range when taking photos which would be awesome.
* I don't plan on doing it professionally in the sense that I do it for people or companies but I would like to mention that if I ever had or was given the chance then I would not hesitate to uphold it.

If you are interested in looking at my photos, then do checkout my [instagram](https://instagram.com/WillDotChill) where I post a lot of edits. I do have a website but it's currently heavily under development and I have no idea when it will be done.
